
When the parser disambiguates an attachment ambiguity (1a,b), is the eye directed to the ambiguous region? This is a crucial question for understanding the parser-eye connection (see, e.g., Reichle et al 2009). It is possible that the parser directs the eye to the ambiguous region upon disambiguation, so-called Selective Reanalysis (Frazier & Rayner 1982). Meseguer et al (2003) investigated ambiguous Spanish sentences and presented evidence for Selective Reanalysis. However, Mitchell et al (2009?) found many cases of short regressions to the preceding word, and only a few instances of Sele. Mitchell et al concluded that in general only a loose coupling exists between the eye and the parser, although a certain amount of eye-mind coordination cannot be ruled out.

Meseguer et al identified scanpath patterns manually, whereas Mitchell et al used so-called regression signatures: the distribution of landing sites of the first fixation following a regression from the disambiguating region. Recently, Malsburg & Vasishth  (CUNY 2010) proposed a novel method for semi-automatically extracting and identifying scanpath patterns. They showed that in the Meseguer et al dataset the dominant reanalysis strategy involved rereading the sentence. 

One difficulty with the Meseguer et al experiment was that there was no unambiguous baseline to compare the garden path sentences with. Without an unambiguous baseline one cannot definitively say whether reanalysis is the cause for rereading or any other pattern. We therefore replicated the Meseguer et al experiment (n=70) with an additional condition that had no ambiguity (unambiguously low attachment). We analyzed eye-movement patterns using standard dependent measures, Mitchell et al type regression signatures, and the scanpath method of Malsburg & Vasishth.  We found (i) more regressions in the garden-path conditions than the unambiguous baseline (showing that reanalysis was indeed triggering regressions); (ii) three scanpath patterns emerged: A, rereading (consistent with Malsburg & Vasishth's finding); B, random scanning of previous material (consistent with Mitchell's proposal); C, checking of disambiguating word; and (iii) the regression signatures showed no evidence for Selective Reanalysis: most regressions after the critical or post-critical region were either to the preceding region or to the beginning of the sentence (these resulted in re-reading, as the scanpath analyses show).

In sum, 

